= Irc Scroller =
Irc Scroller is an space-age product for joining two different worlds together; [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Relay_Chat Irc], messaging protocol from the time when god walked the earth, and [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_2.0 web 2.0], ''the'' choice for dot com boomers.

Primary design use for Irc Scroller is to display irc-logs as real-time updating web pages. But it has been utilized for different purposes as well, eg. [wiki:HLstats displaying game-server ongoing status and events]. Great for communities. And good for your ego too!

== Features ==
 * Support for most common irc logs:
   * [http://www.mirc.com/ Mirc] and [http://mel.sourceforge.net/ compatibles].
   * [http://www.eggheads.org/ Eggdrop]. Notice, that by default eggdrop flushes logs only on every 5 minutes. To get faster updates, add {{{set quick-logs 1}}} to eggdrop config. They're still flushed every minute or so, so using [http://mel.sourceforge.net/ mel] or some other logging mechanism is recommended.
   * [http://www.irssi.org Irssi], the best irc client around.
   * [http://pear.php.net/DB Pear DB] supported database. There is currently one known bot which produces log for native Irc Scroller DB format, and it's [http://svn.rautakuu.org/repos/homebrevcomputing/MiniTeemu/ MiniTeemu]. And you don't wanna use it (seriously, it ''will'' make baby Jesus cry), so some degree of rocket science and/or voodoo magic is required. Alas, it is still only, heavily tested log format.
 * Javascript (Ajax, if you prefer fancy thing like electricity) powered, without graceful deprecation.  Uses more or less, more less sophisticated polling method to get instant updates.
  * Throttling. All thought it probably wastes more resources than saves, uses simple average calculation to delay updates fetch, if server is under a heavy load.
  * Smart (n+1) calculation in client side, when next update should be fetched.
  * [http://www.mirc.net/newbie/colors.php Mirc colors].

== Download ==
 * Fetch directly from [/repos/homebrevcomputing/rautakuusivut/irclog.php subversion]
 * WebSVN: source:rautakuusivut/irclog.php ([/trac/homebrevcomputing/log/rautakuusivut/irclog.php ChangeLog])
 * Latest snapshot: attachment:ircscroller.tar.gz
 * Or look from bottom, section "Attachements"

== Demos, Documents and Links ==
 * '''Demos'''[[br]]
   * [http://rsl.sivut.rautakuu.org/index.php?menu=2 RSL webpages]. Uses !MiniTeemus offered logging.
   * [http://rolleweb.net/irc RolleWeb]
   * [http://rautakuu.org/drupal/ Rautakuu frontpage], where it has been operated over two years now.
 * .. which brings as naturally to our support channel, [irc://irc.quakenet.org/#rautakuu #rautakuu @ QuakeNET]
 * IrcScrollerSetup -- Documentation for Irc Scroller setup
 * http://rautakuu.org/drupal/node/88 -- How to get irc scroller working in your web page; the easy way (in Finnish).
 * http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt -- License text for Irc Scroller.